%perlcode %{

@EXPORT_OK = qw/
   gsl_min_fminimizer_alloc
   gsl_min_fminimizer_free
   gsl_min_fminimizer_set
   gsl_min_fminimizer_set_with_values
   gsl_min_fminimizer_iterate
   gsl_min_fminimizer_name
   gsl_min_fminimizer_x_minimum
   gsl_min_fminimizer_x_lower
   gsl_min_fminimizer_x_upper
   gsl_min_fminimizer_f_minimum
   gsl_min_fminimizer_f_lower
   gsl_min_fminimizer_f_upper
   gsl_min_fminimizer_minimum
   gsl_min_test_interval
   gsl_min_find_bracket
   $gsl_min_fminimizer_brent
   $gsl_min_fminimizer_goldensection
/;

%EXPORT_TAGS = ( all => [ @EXPORT_OK ] );

__END__

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::GSL::Min - 1-D Minimization

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Math::GSL::Min qw/:all/;
    use Math::GSL::Const qw/$M_PI/;

    my $m = gsl_min_fminimizer_alloc($gsl_min_fminimizer_goldensection);

    gsl_min_fminimizer_set_with_values($m,
        sub { cos($_[0]) },
        3, cos(3),
        0, cos(0),
        2*$M_PI, cos(2*$M_PI)
    );
    my $status  = gsl_min_fminimizer_iterate($m);

    my $x_min   = gsl_min_fminimizer_x_minimum($m);
    my $x_lower = gsl_min_fminimizer_x_lower($m);
    my $x_upper = gsl_min_fminimizer_x_upper($m);

    my $f_min   = gsl_min_fminimizer_f_minimum($m);
    my $f_lower = gsl_min_fminimizer_f_lower($m);
    my $f_upper = gsl_min_fminimizer_f_upper($m);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Here is a list of all the functions in this module :

=over

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_alloc($type)>

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_free>

Don't call this function explicitly. It will be called automatically in DESTROY for fminimizer.

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_set >

Don't apply this function twice to the same fminimizer. It will cause a memory leak. Instead of this you should create new fminimizer.

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_set_with_values>

Don't apply this function twice to the same fminimizer. It will cause a memory leak. Instead of this you should create new fminimizer.

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_iterate($m)>

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_name >

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_x_minimum($m)>

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_x_lower($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_x_upper($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_f_minimum($m)>

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_f_lower($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_f_upper($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_fminimizer_minimum($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_test_interval($m) >

=item * C<gsl_min_find_bracket($m) >

=back

This module also includes the following constants :

=over

=item * C<$gsl_min_fminimizer_brent>

=item * C<$gsl_min_fminimizer_goldensection>

=back

For more informations on the functions, we refer you to the GSL offcial
documentation: L<http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/>

=head1 AUTHORS

Jonathan "Duke" Leto <jonathan@leto.net> and Thierry Moisan <thierry.moisan@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Jonathan "Duke" Leto and Thierry Moisan

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

%}
