%perlcode %{
our @EXPORT = qw();
our @EXPORT_OK = qw/
               gsl_log1p
               gsl_expm1
               gsl_hypot
               gsl_hypot3
               gsl_acosh
               gsl_asinh
               gsl_atanh
               gsl_isnan
               gsl_isinf
               gsl_finite
               gsl_posinf
               gsl_neginf
               gsl_fdiv
               gsl_coerce_double
               gsl_coerce_float
               gsl_coerce_long_double
               gsl_ldexp
               gsl_frexp
               gsl_fcmp
               gsl_nan
               gsl_isnan
               gsl_inf
               $GSL_NAN
               $GSL_POSINF
               $GSL_NEGINF
             /;

our %EXPORT_TAGS = ( all => \@EXPORT_OK );
our $GSL_NAN    = gsl_nan();
our $GSL_POSINF = gsl_posinf();
our $GSL_NEGINF = gsl_neginf();

__END__

=head1 NAME

Math::GSL::Sys -

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use Math::GSL::Sys qw /:all/;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Here is a list of all the functions in this module :

=over

=item * C<gsl_log1p($x)> - This function computes the value of \log(1+$x) in a way that is accurate for small $x. It provides an alternative to the BSD math function log1p(x).
=item * C<gsl_expm1($x)> - This function computes the value of \exp($x)-1 in a way that is accurate for small $x. It provides an alternative to the BSD math function expm1(x).

=item * C<gsl_hypot($x, $y)> - This function computes the value of \sqrt{$x^2 + $y^2} in a way that avoids overflow. It provides an alternative to the BSD math function hypot($x,$y).

=item * C<gsl_hypot3($x, $y, $z)> - This function computes the value of \sqrt{$x^2 + $y^2 + $z^2} in a way that avoids overflow.

=item * C<gsl_acosh($x)> - This function computes the value of \arccosh($x). It provides an alternative to the standard math function acosh($x).

=item * C<gsl_asinh($x)> - This function computes the value of \arcsinh($x). It provides an alternative to the standard math function asinh($x).

=item * C<gsl_atanh($x)> - This function computes the value of \arctanh($x). It provides an alternative to the standard math function atanh($x).

=item * C<gsl_isnan($x)> - This function returns 1 if $x is not-a-number.

=item * C<gsl_isinf($x)> - This function returns +1 if $x is positive infinity, -1 if $x is negative infinity and 0 otherwise.

=item * C<gsl_finite($x)> - This function returns 1 if $x is a real number, and 0 if it is infinite or not-a-number.

=item * C<gsl_posinf >

=item * C<gsl_neginf >

=item * C<gsl_fdiv >

=item * C<gsl_coerce_double >

=item * C<gsl_coerce_float >

=item * C<gsl_coerce_long_double >

=item * C<gsl_ldexp($x, $e)> - This function computes the value of $x * 2**$e. It provides an alternative to the standard math function ldexp($x,$e).

=item * C<gsl_frexp($x)> - This function splits the number $x into its normalized fraction f and exponent e, such that $x = f * 2^e and 0.5 <= f < 1. The function returns f and then the exponent in e. If $x is zero, both f and e are set to zero. This function provides an alternative to the standard math function frexp(x, e).

=item * C<gsl_fcmp($x, $y, $epsilon)> - This function determines whether $x and $y are approximately equal to a relative accuracy $epsilon. The relative accuracy is measured using an interval of size 2 \delta, where \delta = 2^k \epsilon and k is the maximum base-2 exponent of $x and $y as computed by the function frexp. If $x and $y lie within this interval, they are considered approximately equal and the function returns 0. Otherwise if $x < $y, the function returns -1, or if $x > $y, the function returns +1. Note that $x and $y are compared to relative accuracy, so this function is not suitable for testing whether a value is approximately zero. The implementation is based on the package fcmp by T.C. Belding.

=back

For more informations on the functions, we refer you to the GSL offcial
documentation: L<http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/>

 Tip : search on google: site:http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/ name_of_the_function_you_want


=head1 AUTHORS

Jonathan Leto <jonathan@leto.net> and Thierry Moisan <thierry.moisan@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2008 Jonathan Leto and Thierry Moisan

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

%}

