=encoding utf8

=head1 RELEASE INSTRUCTIONS

This document intends to be a work in progress, where developers can
take notes on the release process. When preparing a release, authors
are encouraged to follow the check list bellow, adding or removing
details from this document as relevant.

=head2 RELEASE PROCESS

=over

=item 1.

Ensure your C<master> branch is up to date with the GitHub website.

=item 2.

Check your installed C<libgsl> version. Namely, ensure the version
installed in the system is the latest available, or at least, the last
supported at the moment by C<Math::GSL>.

Nevertheless, it would be better to upgrade C<Math::GSL> to support
the latest C<libgsl> version before a new release, unless it is a
serious bug fix.

The latest C<libgsl> version can always be found at the GNU mirror:
L<ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gsl/>.

=item 3.

Make a C<clean>. Probably it is a good idea to first run C<perl
Build.PL>, updating any missing detail in the building process, and
then run C<./Build clean>.

=item 4.

Make sure everything works before any further step. Compile Build.PL
with C<perl Build.PL>, and check that the build system complains on missing C<c> files
for the C<libgsl> wrapping. If not, check the previous step.

=item 5.

Build the module, with C<./Build>. Check that everything compiles.

=item 6. 

Run the standard test suite with C<./Build test>.

=item 7.

Bump the version in C<lib/Math/GSL.pm>. Make sure to update the
C<$VERSION> variable, and the POD entry with the current version.

=item 8.

Update the C<Changes> file, adding the new version, and verify the
change log. Hopefully ever feature commit will edit this
file. Nevertheless try to think of anything that might be missing from
the change log. Add the release date.

=item 9.

Restart the build process:

    ./Build clean
    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test

=item 10.

Check the distribution contents:

     ./Build distcheck

If there is any relevant file missing, add it. Go to 9.

=item 11.

Check if the tarball compiles and passes tests

     ./Build disttest   # tries to compile from scratch from the dist tarball

=item 12.

Everything seems good? Create the release and upload it to CPAN.

     ./Build dist
     cpan-upload Math-GSL-x.xx.tar.gz

=item 13.

Be sure to add and commit changed files.

=item 14.

Add a release to GitHub with the tarball. This will also tag the
current tree status.

=item 15.

Organizational suggestion: close the milestone that refers to the
current release and create the next one, if it does not still exist.

=back

=cut